# Local Kubernetes Deployment

We will be using config maps for storing PostgreSQL related information. Here, we are using the database, user and password in the config map which will be used by the PostgreSQL pod in the deployment template.

```bash
kubectl create -f postgres-configmap.yaml
```

## Persistent Local Storage
As you all know that Docker containers are ephemeral in nature. All the data which is generated by or in the container will be lost after termination of the container instance.

To save the data, we will be using Persistent volumes and persistent volume claim resource within Kubernetes to store the data on persistent storages.

Here, we are using local directory/path as Persistent storage resource (/mnt/data)

```bash
kubectl create -f postgres-storage.yaml
```

## Postgres SQL deployment
PostgreSQL manifest for deployment of PostgreSQL container uses PostgreSQL 10.4 image. It is using PostgreSQL configuration like username, password, database name from the configmap that we created earlier. It also mounts the volume created from the persistent volumes and claims to make PostgreSQL container’s data persists.

```bash
kubectl create -f postgres-deployment.yaml
```

## Postgres Service
To access the deployment or container, we need to expose PostgreSQL service. Kubernetes provides different type of services like ClusterIP, NodePort and LoadBalancer.

With ClusterIP we can access PostgreSQL service within Kubernetes. NodePort gives the ability to expose service endpoint on the Kubernetes nodes. For accessing PostgreSQL externally, we need to use a Load Balancer service type which exposes the service externally

```bash
kubectl create -f postgres-service.yaml
```

## Connect To Postgres
For connecting PostgreSQL, we need to get the Node port from the service deployment.
```bash
$ kubectl get svc postgres
NAME       TYPE       CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
postgres   NodePort   10.107.71.253   <none>        5432:31070/TCP   5m
```

We need to use port 31070 to connect to PostgreSQL from machine/node present in kubernetes cluster with credentials given in the configmap earlier.

```bash
psql -h localhost -U postgresadmin1 --password -p 31070 postgresdb
Password for user postgresadmin1:
psql (10.4)
Type "help" for help.

postgresdb=#
```

## Deleting Postgres Deployments
```bash
kubectl delete service postgres
kubectl delete deployment postgres
kubectl delete configmap postgres-config
kubectl delete persistentvolumeclaim postgres-pv-claim
kubectl delete persistentvolume postgres-pv-volume
```
